###Introduccion de la pagina Tools

Diferentes herramientas de análisis de secuencias se encuentran implementadas en Peptipedia, centrándose no sólo en la caracterización de secuencias si no, que en las aplicaciones de herramientas bioinformaticas y estrategias de Machine Learning y data mining para identificar patrones, entrenar modelos y clasificar peptidos segun actividad en base a los modelos preentrenados existentes en Peptipedia.

#Las cosas se describen así:

Nombre de servicio
Descripción breve
Descripción full (en la página principal de la tool correspondiente)
Interpretación

#####Servicio de caracterización de secuencias

Nombre de servicio: Peptide Sequence Characterization
Descripción: Characterization of peptide sequences using physicochemical, structural, and simple statistical properties.
Descripción full:

Amino acid sequences can be characterized using physicochemical and structural properties. To do this, Peptipedia in combination with the MODLAMP library [1], estimates the properties of one or a set of peptide sequences. First, complete the form by entering the sequences in Fasta format and pressing the Calculate button. In the case of being only a single sequence, Peptipedia provides a general breakdown of the estimated information, together with the hydrophobic profile and the helical wheel analysis. For sequence sets, generates a downloadable summary table.

Nota: Todas las interpretaciones de los gráficos, parámetros y demases es pega de Juan Amado y Benjamín...

#Esta cita tiene que ir al final de la página para que no nos webeen
[1] Müller, A. T., Gabernet, G., Hiss, J. A., & Schneider, G. (2017). modlAMP: Python for antimicrobial peptides. Bioinformatics, 33(17), 2753-2755.

#######Servicio de Codificación de secuencias

Nombre de servicio: Peptide Sequence Encoding
Descripción: Encoding peptide sequences using classical approaches as One Hot Encoder or more recent strategies developed based on digital signal and Natural Language Processing
Descripción full:

All applications of Machine Learning and Data Mining algorithms require numerical inputs to apply the different algorithms. Peptipedia has implemented various strategies for encoding amino acid sequences. Classical approaches, including One Hot and frequency of residues strategies and physicochemical properties. Besides, this tool allows Digital Signal Processing Strategies [1] and Natural Language Processing methods [2] for encoding sequences. For encoding sequences, you need to input a Fasta file. The tool will make a validation step of sequences, ignoring those without canonical residues. Next, Peptipedia applies the encoding strategy previously selected, and it is going to a compressed file with all results.

Interpretación:

The compressed file generated by Peptipedia has a summary file with sequences used for the encoding process and ignored. Besides, It creates a CSV file with sequences encoded. For the case of Digital Signal Processing and Physicochemical Properties, eight encodings are generated using the groups of properties identified in our previous work [1]. The representation of sequences in Digital Signal Space is achieved using the Fast Fourier Transformation algorithm over the sequences encoding by physicochemical properties. Finally, in Natural Language Processing, Peptipedia employs the Tape Library for getting embedding representation of the sequences using pre-training models.

###Servicio de Análisis de residuos

Nombre de Servicios: Statistical Residue Analysis
Descripción: Frequency analysis of amino acids in peptide sequences are generated from statistical techniques, analyzing the trend by residues.
Descripción full:

Peptipedia allows making trend analysis of amino acids in a sequence or a set of them, counting the proportion of residues in the input sequence. If it is only one sequence, the tool displays a pie chart with the analyzed frequency. Otherwise, a summary table is generated for each summary trend for each sequence, and a graph is developed with the average trend for the set of sequences entered.

Interpretación -> No lo considero necesario, si Juan y Benja lo consideran, adelante.

####Servicio de clasificación de actividad de secuencias

Nombre: Activity prediction for sequences
Descripción: Activity prediction for sequences supported by Machine Learning algorithms
Descripción Full: te la debo, aún no se bien qué se usará XD
Interpretación: Lo mismo 

####Servicio de desarrollo de modelos predictivos

Nombre: Training predictive models
Descripción: Training predictive models using specific amino acidic sequences and a particular response, as for example, thermostability, enantioselectivity, or binary response as for example, is toxic or no.
Descripción Full:

The predictive model training service allows the user to train specific models for their sequences of interest. The sequences must be entered in a CSV file and must have two columns: Sequence and Response. To run the service, it is necessary to select the type of model to perform (classification if the response is binary or categorical and regression if the response is of the continuous type). It is then necessary to select the type of coding to be carried out (the same ones existing in the coding service). For the cases of Digital Signal Processing and Physicochemical Properties, it will be necessary to select the type of property to use. Finally, the supervised learning algorithm and its configuration hyperparameters are chosen. Peptipedia collects all the information and proceeds to develop the model with a k-fold cross-validation system. The value of k is selected according to the type of sequence. Once the model is generated, Peptipedia displays the performance results and statistical graphs that show the characteristics and trends of the predictive model. It is essential to mention that all the results and models generated are packed in a compressed file and are available for download.

Interpretación:

In general, performances are associated with a value between 0 and 1 for regression cases and 0 and 100 for classification cases, where the higher the value, the better the performance. For the classification models, the confusion matrix is reported, which indicates the trends of predictions by class and their rate of error and graphs of sensitivity v/s specificity, which help to understand the characteristics of the models and the pampering reliability. For regression models, a scatter plot of real versus predicted values is exposed. As they approach a diagonal, the model presents better performance. Besides, an error trend graph is generated, which the more significant the randomness present, indicates that there is no preference for an underestimation or overestimation of the predicted values.

####Servicio de alineamiento de secuencias

Nombre: Alignment sequences
Descripción: Alignment sequences using Blast tools and the Peptipedia DataBase
Descripción full:

Peptipedia allows the alignment of sequences against its database, using the BlastP tool from the Blast suite. To do this, it is necessary to enter a sequence in Fasta format. The tool takes the sequence and aligns it against the generated database. The results are ordered by percent identity, the first match being the one with the closest phylogenetic relationship.

Interpretación -> Puta, no es necesario, osea, todo el mundo de esta área sabe lo que es un blast.
